ECON 310
Melanie Trill
Homework #1

1) Discuss how and why each of the following might affect US per capita GDP growth:
    a) An increase of foreign direct investment into the US from Europe is caused by a decline in the value of the European currency, the euro.
    
    b) Congress passes a law exempting capital gains from taxation.
    
    c) College tuition across the US increases by 2% per year in nominal terms, while inflation is steady at 2%.
    
    d) Fertility drugs increase the maximum childbearing age of US women.
    
    e) Lengthening the life of patents on new inventions.
    
    f) Due to lower-than-expected tax revenues (due to tax cuts and the recession), the state of Michigan is forced to slash spending on higher education.
    
    g) Congress increases the research and development tax credit, which reduces a firm’s tax bill if it engages in research into developing new technologies.



2)  A Bangladeshi worker who immigrates to America is likely to find that her average labor productivity is much higher in the U.S. than it was at home. The worker is, of course, the same person she was when she lived in Bangladesh.
    How can the simple act of moving to the U.S. increase the worker’s productivity? 
    What does your answer say about the incentive to immigrate?



3) Analytics of a Linear Demand Curve. Suppose that the market demand for asparagus in Astonia is given by Qd = 25,000 – 2,000P, where Qd is the quantity demanded in pounds and P is the price of asparagus in dollars per pound.
    a) Graph the demand curve with price on the vertical axis and quantity on the horizontal axis.
    
    b) What is the slope of the demand curve? Is it constant? Explain the relationship between the slope and the coefficients of the demand equation?
    
    c) At what values does the demand curve intersect the vertical and horizontal axes? What economic interpretation can be attached to each of these points?
    
    d) What happens when the price is above the vertical intercept value or if quantity is greater than the horizontal intercept value? Is this realistic? 



5) Suppose that in January 2010 Joan Jones buys an existing house from Alton Dalton for $400,000. Closing costs include a $20,000 commission to UN Realty, a $2,000 title research and transfer fee to SUB Title, and a $4,000 loan origination fee to River Bank. During 2010, Joan pays $1,500 in principal on her mortgage and $15,000 in interest. 
    How (if at all) do the above transactions enter into 2010 GDP? 



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sources:
https://www.reed.edu/economics/parker/f10/201/asgn.html
https://public.websites.umich.edu/~alandear/courses/102/homework/hw.html