ART 101
WORLD HISTORY OF ART & INK
Othello University
DuVernay School of Art & Art History

Instructor: Ana Winto
Office Hours: Tuesdays 3-5 pm
Office: 128 Duvernay Hall 
E-mail: professor.winto@othello.edu
Source: https://arthistory.uic.edu/courses/selected-syllabi/

This course satisfies the General Education Requirement Understanding Creative Arts.


+ Course Description +

Why do we still care about the works of art, buildings, and cities of the ancient and medieval past? This course offers an introduction to the art, architecture, and material culture of the ancient and medieval cultures of the Mediterranean, Asia, Middle East, Africa and the New World. We will explore works of art, architectural monuments, and artifacts from Mesopotamia, Egypt, prehistoric Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, the classical art of Greece and Rome, Byzantine Empire as well as medieval Europe with occasional forays into other regions in the world such as Africa, South America, East Asia and the Indian Subcontinent.

Art can be broadly described as creative and imaginative work of human communities and individuals using their material skills and acquired bodies of knowledge, in order to build a meaningful world around them.
The course starts with the Paleolithic cave paintings of Europe and Africa and the monumental ritual architecture of the Near Eastern Neolithic, and stretches all the way to the late antique-early Islamic Jerusalem, Byzantine Istanbul/Constantinople and Gothic capitals of Europe. We will finish the course with Istanbul’s Byzantine church Hagia Sophia, Early Christian and Islamic monuments in Jerusalem, Islamic Andalusia and early Gothic structures of Europe. 


+ Course Objectives +

The main objective of the course is to provide students with a well-rounded background in the art, visual culture, and architecture of world cultures before the emergence of early modernity.

The course also aims to make students familiar with the methodologies and core concepts of art history, and give them the basics of acquiring literacy in art history. Reading and writing assignments, museum visits, and documentary screenings will allow students to become familiar with research methodologies that are used for closely engaging with works of art and architecture.


+ Course Readings +

All readings are available for download in PDF form on Blackboard, under Weekly Content. Students are expected to do weekly readings listed in this syllabus (see below Weekly Schedule) regularly and comprehensively. Assigned readings must be completed before the session under which it is listed in the syllabus.

Textbook:
    The History of Art: A Global View: Prehistory to the Present. Volume 1.

Also:
    Cord, Jebediah; 2008. Ink Speaks. London; BBC

All the readings other than the textbook are available to you in pdf format on Classroom. These additional readings will be used for discussion during your weekly section meetings. Please make sure to do these readings carefully, take notes, and be prepared to discuss them when you come to your section meetings.


+ Exams and Papers (written assignments) +

There will be two take-home midterm exams throughout the semester and a final exam at the end during the finals week. These will be open-book exams and you will have a full day to complete the exam and upload it to Classroom. The exams will be timed (max 2 hours).
Make-up exams will only be offered in the case of a documented illness or emergency. This must be arranged with your TA.

During the semester, there will be two short writing assignments. Detailed description of these assignments will be distributed later during the semester.

Paper 1: Museum Paper (800-1200 words, 3-4 pages) 
Paper 2: Monument Research Paper (1200-1500 words, 4-5 pages)


+ Grading +

Discussion Section Attendance and Participation  - 10%
Video-Lecture Quizzes - 15%
Take-home Midterm Exam I - 15%
Paper I: Museum Essay - 15%
Take-home Midterm Exam II - 15%
Paper II: Monument Research Essay - 15%
Take-home Final Exam - 15%

Grading scale for the total grade:
A+ 97-100 | A 94-96 | A- 90-93 | B+ 87-89 | B 84-86 | B- 80-83
C+ 75-79 | C 70-74 | C- 65-69 | D+ 60-64 | D 55-59 | D- 50-54 | F 0-49


+ Policies and Protocols +

Student COVID-19 vaccination requirements and deadlines
-------------------------------------------------------
Per school policy, all students are required to get a COVID-19 vaccination prior to the fall semester if they are able to do so.
COVID-19 safety measures:
Many of the COVID-19 safety measures you are familiar with will remain in place for the fall semester. The safety measures include:
    • Most importantly, stay home if you are ill or have COVID-19 symptoms to protect the health of your colleagues and classmates.
    • COVID-19 vaccinations (the primary series) remain required. Vaccines are the most effective protection against serious illness, hospitalization and death.

Accommodations
--------------
There is also an accommodation process for students who are not able to come to campus, regardless of vaccination status. Students can
request an accommodation formally through the Disability Resource Center.

Attendance policy
-----------------
If you will miss a section meeting for health reasons, travel obligations, or emergencies, please inform your teaching assistant
or your professor ahead of time and indicate your reason/excuse and present to her/him written documentation. You should be willing to do an
extra assignment if you miss a section to make up for your absence. If you miss 4 or more section meetings throughout the semester (excused or
unexcused) (about 25%), you may fail the class

Academic Integrity
------------------
Students are expected to follow the Othello University's ethical code of conduct and academic integrity. Academic integrity means honesty and responsibility in scholarship. Students and faculty alike must obey rules of honest scholarship, which means that all academic work should result from an individual's own efforts. Intellectual contributions from others must be consistently and responsibly acknowledged. Academic work completed in any other way is fraudulent. It is your responsibility to refrain from infractions of academic integrity, from conduct that may lead to suspicion of such infractions, and from conduct that aids others in such infractions. 
Ask instructors for clarification if you are unsure of their expectations